---
title: "Flowable 6.2.1 release"
author: flowable
---

Today we released a new version of Flowable with the 6.2.1 release.

The 6.2.1 release has the following highlights:

Highlights

- Lots of additions to the CMMN 1.1 Engine, including timer support, repetition support, DMN and HTTP task support and variable query support.
- Rest documentation is now also generated based on the Swagger definitions to ensure it's always in sync with the REST controller code.
- Improved support of ChangeActivityStateBuilder to move an execution in a process instance to another activity that's part of the process definition.
- Enhanced the CMMN Modeler palette with timer event listeners, DMN and HTTP tasks and additional properties like timer expressions and repetition expressions.
- Improved support of CMMN in the Flowable Task app.
- Various small bugfixes all around.

Community contributors

- Pascal Schumacher (PascalSchumacher)
- Stijn de Pestel (stijndepestel)
- Robert Hafner (roberthafner)
- Xin Wang (dram)
- David Malkovsky (dbmalkovsky)
- Michael Lippens (mlippens)
- Marco van Zwetselaar (zwets)
- Yanming Zhou (quaff)
- Christophe Deneux (cdeneux)

Upgrade notes

To harmonize the deployers between the BPMN and CMMN engine the ProcessEngineConfigurator interface has been renamed to EngineConfigurator and moved to the flowable-engine-common module.
In addition a new flowable-spring-common module has been added to shared common Spring classes between the BPMN and CMMN spring modules.