---
title: "Flowable 6.1.1 release"
author: flowable
---

Today we released a new version of Flowable with the 6.1.1 release.

The 6.1.1 release has the following highlights:

Highlights

- Introduction of audit history in the DMN Engine. When history is enabled in the DMN Engine, an audit log of each decision execution is stored in the DMN database. By default the history is disabled.
- Replaced the MVEL expression language in the DMN Engine with the same JUEL expression language as used in the BPMN and Form Engine.
- Refactored DmnRuleService with new ExecuteDecisionBuilder and deprecated old execute decision methods.
- Call activity: allow to set output parameters a local variables for multi instance executions.
- Easier usage of async history in combination with a message queue (see <a href="https://github.com/flowable/flowable-examples/tree/master/async-history">https://github.com/flowable/flowable-examples/tree/master/async-history</a>)
- Performance improvement: introduce grouping and compression for async history data.
- Various small bugfixes all around.

Community contributors

- Faizal Abdul Manan (faizal-manan)
- David Malkovsky (dbmalkovsky)
- Harsha Teja Kanna (h7kanna)
- Lori Small (lsmall)
- bsydow
- stephraleigh

Upgrade notes

<b>CommandContext and related classes package changes:</b>

As a result of a refactoring that involved consolidating various classes and moving them to the <i>flowable-engine-common</i> module, following <i>internal</i> classes have changed packages.

The following applies to all engines (process, dmn, form, content and idm):

- The <i>CommandContext</i> class is now in the <i>org.flowable.engine.common.impl.interceptor</i> package.
- The various getter methods on the <i>CommandContext</i> that gave quick-access to various internal components are removed 
 (because the CommandContext is now shared between all engines). All engines now have a <i>CommandContextUtil</i> class that 
 should be used instead and which has said getter methods. The <i>org.flowable.engine.impl.context.Context</i> utlity class 
 in the process engine is still there for backwards compatibility and can be used as before, but simply delegates to the <i>CommandContextUtil</i> methods.
- The classes related to the command stack interceptors (<i>Command</i>, <i>CommandContextInterceptor</i>, <i>CommandExecutor</i>, <i>Log/Jta/RetryInterceptor</i>) are now in the <i>org.flowable.engine.common.impl.interceptor</i> package.
- The <i>DbSqlSession</i> and <i>DbSqlSessionFactory</i> classes are now found in the <i>org.flowable.engine.common.impl.db</i> package.
- Database schema management logic has moved from the <i>DbSqlSession</i> class to implementations of the <i>org.flowable.engine.common.impl.db.DbSchemaManager</i> interface.
- The <i>GenericManagerFactory</i> class is now in the <i>org.flowable.engine.common.impl.persistence</i> package.

The process engine now has the <i>org.flowable.engine.impl.util.EngineServiceUtil</i> utility class that can be used to get easily access to the configuration and services of the other engines.

<b>FlowableCancelledEvent.getCause() return value change</b>

The value that's passed in the <i>cause</i> of a <i>org.flowable.engine.delegate.event.FlowableCancelledEvent</i> has changed in the following cases:

- The event that is thrown for activities cancelled by a <i>message boundary event</i>.
- The event that is thrown for activities cancelled by a <i>signal boundary event</i>.
- The event that is thrown for activities cancelled by a <i>timer boundary event</i>.

Instead of passing an entity instance (MessageEventSubscriptionEntity, SignalEventSubscriptionEntity or JobEntity respectively) the BpmnModel
counterpart, as an instance of a subclass of <i>org.flowable.bpmn.model.FlowElement</i>, is passed instead which is consistent with the general value of the <i>cause</i> property.
Do note that due to the fact the return type of <i>getCause()</i> is <i>Object</i>, the compiler will not notice this, so best to look at the usage of the <i>FlowableCancelledEvent</i> in your code.

A big thank you to the whole Flowable <a href="http://www.flowable.org/team.html">team</a> for making this release possible.
You can use the <a href="http://forum.flowable.org">forum</a> to ask specific questions about the 6.1.1 release, any feedback is welcome.